Israel's military has seized control of
a key border crossing in Gaza it's
released images of what it says are
tanks rolling into Rafa in the south of
the strip which is a vital crossing
point for humanitarian Aid coming via
Egypt the incursion has cast new doubt
over whether a deal can be done over a
proposed ceasefire with Hamas which is
considered a terrorist organization by
several countries despite that an
Israeli delegation is heading to Cairo
for talks
after a night of celebrations
Palestinians wake up to a familiar
reality Israeli tanks Converge on the
key raer border crossing the Israeli
Army saying is taken control of the
checkpoint Gaza
side in the city of Rafa people are
searching for bodies under the rubble
following deadly Israeli strikes
overnight heavy gunfire very very heavy
bombardment
with
planes Rockets tanks machine
guns never in my life have I seen
this I'm almost 69 years old in my life
I've never seen bombings like
this on Tuesday Israel dropped lift lets
over Rafa urging residents to leave
parts of the city for what it calls an
expanded humanitarian
area the order put in many displaced
Palestinians on the move
again now they're saying to evacuate
from Rafa where should we go hanun is
ruined what is left they ruined our
lives there's nothing left there's no
safety and no home there's no one but
our
[Music]
God we don't know where to go tell us
where to go is Al maazi and kanun is a
safe place are there tents is there
water is there electricity is there food
and drink
is it a safe place Gaza now has no safe
place we're on the move with our
children and we can't find safety where
are the Arab countries to see us to
empathize with our
[Applause]
children the news of Hamas accepting the
ceasefire was met with joy on the
streets of Gaza on Monday evening but
hours later Israel's attacks stopped the
celebrations
well for more now let's cross over to
journalist Kareem Al guari he's in Cairo
Egypt's capital Kareem what are your
sources telling you about the situation
in
Rafa well I just viewed the material uh
local cameraman sent us from the Gaza
Strip from people um running away from
Rafa and trying to find a place it's a
really utter despair that many people
are were displaced at least half a dozen
times some even more they're running out
of money they have no idea uh where to
go and so really I would say the nerves
are on edge of people there and it's of
course no wonder because there was this
hot and cold showers really if you think
about the last 24 hours first leaflets
were dropped over their houses telling
them they should leave because it will
become a combat zone then in the evening
they were celebrating on the street
because they thought the war is over
after Hamas agreed to a peace propos
proposal from Egypt and qat only to
realize that it's going on that there
will there's a was a heavy bombardment
last night in Rafa and now we have
Israeli tanks rolling in parts of Rafa
all this is really leading to a very
very desperate situation for people
there now the Egyptian foreign Ministry
warned today that Israel's operation in
Rafa risks undermining ceasefire efforts
what do we know about the truce talks
that are apparently going on now in
Egypt well we know the Hamas or the
Hamas delegation arrived in Cairo we're
still waiting for the
Israeli delegation to come it's
interesting because originally the
Israeli side they will only set they
will only send a delegation when there
is a done deal uh to sign it off now
they're sending a delegation to
negotiate there is still a lot of open
questions I think we have a three-phase
uh proposal uh on the table which also
includes in the second phase some kind
of agreement for a permanent ceasefire
and that is I guess one of the uh
stumbling blocks we have right now so we
have to see if this negotiations here in
Kyu will lead to something I think the
Israeli side goes with a double strategy
keeping the pressure on Hamas by moving
militarily into Gaza and at the same
time negotiating here in Cairo
meanwhile the humanitarian situation in
Gaza continues to deteriorate uh the
Rafa and corom Shalom Crossings are now
closed relief agencies are warning that
humanitarian aid for Gaza is being
choked off what are you hearing about
the humanitarian situation in Gaza now
kareim people are panicked because not
only the Kim Shalom Crossing is closed
and it was open been closed in the last
days but now the direct opening that was
not under Israeli control from the
Egyptian side the Raa Crossing is also
cut off so people don't know what's
going to happen we know there was by far
not sufficient Aid deliveries before
these two main Crossings where most of
the deliveries came through were closed
we know also that for commercial Goods
since this B are closed prices are
doubled in the last hours so again
people are panicked they don't know
what's going to happen next and they
really really hope that this talks in
Cairo will have some kind of
outcome Kareem thank you very much that
was journalist kareim elari in
Cairo you're welcome